In your later years, you had the pool at the YMCA,
and you had Sunday school classes there. Yeah. And
any club meetings of the kind were held there. You
see, it was not too large a place. And it was in that
year that they did something with the basement.
Somebody got a lease and put a barber shop in there,
and a man named Casey started a soft drink counter
in there. I didn't know students had as much money
as they had. I didn't have any money to throw
around, but Casey was supposed to have a gold mine.
Did the Y there on campus operate as otherwise did?
Were there rooms for people who visited campus?
No, there was no rooms for visiting. There was two
rooms back of the foyer
in the of the main room of the YMCA was cut off from
the rest of it, and the entrance was on the back
side. There was stairs on the back side. And those
two rooms up there were occupied by officers
during the war activities. There was no other
rooms or facilities for guests in the YMCA. What
was the life like in the dormitories?
Was it pretty well regimented by the military?
Yes, it was military regulation. Of course, there
was a lot of extracurricular activities took
place, water fights and things of that kind. But it
was one racket we had. I remember they had a rule you
had to have one light in your room, and you had to be
out after taps. Well, these electrical engineers
wired those rooms so that, well, first they had
shades that wouldn't let in light out the windows,
because the guards, the sergeants, the army
sergeants were the regular. What's his name? So
I've just almost slipped. The two sergeants I'd
love today. It was just the opposite of each other.
There were older people in the retired army,
sergeants, and they patrolled the campus. They
weren't instructors in military science? No, no.
They were under the commandant. They was in charge
of regulating the regulations carried out. One of
them, of course, was lights out at 1030. But these
upperclassmen, especially, put these heavy
shades on these windows. There were great big
windows in that poster hall, you know, eight-foot
windows. And then they would wire these rooms so
they'd have lights all over the darn place. But it
was fixed so that when the door opened, every light
went out except that one. That was always a sneaky
thing. The wiring was covered by pendants and
things of that kind. And only the Sophisticated
electricians could do that, but otherwise you
just had the one light. I had a buggy lap robe for a
table cover on a board table, and a stove. I should
have liked to get a hold of that old stove. Only the
older dorms, I think, had stoves. Did you have a
wood box in each room? Yep, a wood box and a
washstand with a bucket of water. I've had his
disadvantages. My first roommate was a Fort Worth
boy, but he had syphilis and I didn't know syphilis
from anything else. I didn't know it until later.
He had syphilis and his hair was falling out just
like snowflakes and sores all over him. And he
complained that I
I said something to him. Anyhow, he complained to
the commandant that I had done something. I forgot
whether they insulted him or something. I didn't
know what he had. I knew he had that stuff. The
sergeant called me up on the carpet, wanted to know
why I wasn't getting along with this fellow, and I
told him. This fellow had some kind of disease, and
he wasn't very clean. And the next thing I knew,
they had him out of school. The hospital found out
he had syphilis.
In the dormitories where you only had a washstand
and a
stove like that in each room, where did you bathe?
There was one room down on the first floor with
showers in it. And of course, the toilet was down
there, too. They had one room for the toilet and
another room for the showers. That was the
entrance of the building down on the first floor.
So you had to run down there for showers. You had to
run down there for toilet. And the other
dormitories had toilet on the same floor. Now, you
mentioned you were in the Foster Hall as a fish.
Were you there for other years, too? freshman and
sophomore year. My junior year I was there, but
that was October. We hotheads got enlisted. No,
that junior year I was—I
don't know how I wound up in that other hall with
Charlie Babcock, his And we were working on
advertising for the year's annual. And that's
when I enlisted. What is that dormitory that's
just next to Ross Hall, just north of it? Mitchell
was on this side of the street. What was it? And it
was, oh, I didn't think I'd ever forget that.
Pfeiffer was over there somewhere. Huh?
Pfeiffer? Pfeiffer was one of the oldest. Yeah. It
was one of the oldest buildings on the campus over
on the other side there. Well, anyhow, I was there
for that portion of the year. And then after that,
they reserved Goodwin Hall,
which is in front of Foster Hall. When
they built the new auditorium there, it was over
here at the end of the street. The first Bissell
Hall, Goodwin was the older hall. It was there when
I first went. Goodwin Hall was there. It was a
three-story in the basement. And all of the
service company was quartered in that building.
And I stayed there until the 42nd Service Company
was moved out and the new one brought in. and I was
retained in that one. And then they took over
Goodwin and Ross, and then they built some
barracks, and I went later into Austin Hall. They
took over all those because the student body had
declined considerably. So the Goodwin Hall and
Mitchell, not Mitchell, Ross, Austin, One other,
the one I can't name, was taken over by the
military. And that lasted until 1918, November,
when the armistice was signed and things moved
out. And I came back in January to enter school
again. That was the saddest part of the picture
because there was a lot of bitterness. in the
atmosphere. Between the military, I think, and
this college, I think there was some friction,
although I can't put my finger on it, and there was
considerable friction between the college and
the town. This was right after the war? Right after
the war. Very much unhappiness. Of course, a lot of
people in Bryan had died, and we'd lost 300 or 400
there in College Station, at least that many. I
never did have a record on it. But I've seen the
conference start to seal them for boxes waiting to
be shipped out. Well, just death from the flu there
on campus.
I suppose they still do that. If there's a death on
campus, they have a military parade. And that was
always an impressive ceremony. That happened
four times while I was in college. Now, this was the
death of a student. They'd have a military parade.
Well, now they have a ceremony which they call
silver taps. Oh, they had silver taps. And then in
addition to that, they had the parade. Used to
parade down to the railroad station to put the box
on there. Well, I don't... There's no railroad
there now. Well, the railroad still runs through
there. It was on a freight train. I've been there
almost three years. I don't know that there's been
a death on campus. Whenever a student is killed off
campus, they have silver taps at, I believe, 10
o'clock in the evening.
We have a picture in the archives of a group of
students marching down the road to Bryan.
supposedly in 1919, and someone has identified it
as a student strike in 1919.
Somebody else was told me to know that after the
armistice was signed, a number of students
marched down to Bryan for a celebration. Yes, they
did. So it was a celebration, celebrating the
armistice. I remember I went to class, and these
students came around the corner in mobs, eight or
ten deep, And they were shouting terms which I
don't remember. But nobody went to classes. I
mean, there were no classes held because a few
dumbbells like me showed up in class, didn't know
what was going on.
But the student body marched, and a segment of them
marched to Brian's, I remember. But I wasn't with
that group and didn't see them. But that did
happen, I'm pretty sure.
Do you remember the dormitory you lived in the last
year you were there? I lived in the dormitory next
to
Speza Hall. That dormitory, if I had brought my
annual down here, I could have shown you a picture.
Well, let's see. There's, I believe, Leggett and
Milner. Leggett. Leggett. I believe it was
Leggett. Leggett Hall is next to the dormitory, I
believe. That's Speza, you mean? Mm-hmm.
Leggett's next to Speezer. Yeah, next to Speezer,
yeah. Yeah, I was in that dormitory for the last
year I was there, and my roommates are both all
dead. On the mention of Speezer Hall, what was the
food like in Speezer? Well, I heard a great deal of
criticism by students, but I never had any
complaints about There was more food than most
humans needed, and they gobbled it up faster.
Yeah, I was dumbfounded one time. I didn't get to a
meal, and the time they marched in and out wasn't
fifteen minutes.
On Thursday, I think it was, every week we had a
T-bone steak that big, and bread and pies and
cakes. I thought the meals were outstanding from
my point of view, but the A lot of people, you know,
fuss. I mean, I've seen that all over the world.
Steamships and everything else. Well, students
today fuss about the food, and there's much more
variety, I imagine, than you had. There probably
was, and there probably is more variety. I sit here
the same at Tech. I've been out there for 20 yards a
year, and they complain about the food. But any
institutional food is going to have to be produced
mass production, and you can't put the delicacy
into it that you do in home cooking. And a hell of a
lot of them that complained about the food don't
get as good food at home.
What privileges did upperclassmen enjoy that,
say, freshmen didn't have? Well, the first thing I
remember is that freshmen couldn't go to town
except on Saturday afternoon, and upperclassmen
could go in the evening.
I don't know about any other special privilege
other than they sat at a table where they got
presumably preferred food, and I'm not sure they
did because I never did inspect it. It never
bothered me. Well, what about the, it was all
served family style, wasn't it, as far as, what
about passing the food around the table? Yeah,
they brought it, and they'd have a plate of meat for
so many people that It was family style. You passed
water around and you got your own milk and your own
coffee. I never drank coffee until my senior year.
Did upperclassmen get first choice at the meet or
something like that? Yeah, and of course there was
this
idea if a freshman doesn't behave properly,
according to their studies, they confiscate his
kush or his dessert. things like that. Today they
have a custom, and I don't know how old it is, but an
upperclassman, primarily a sophomore, will ask a
freshman a question, and if he can't answer it by,
say, 5 o'clock or something, then he has to give his
kush to the upperclassman. Yeah, the similar
things happen, not exactly how they're
sophisticated, but there'd be some of the similar
lines. In the archives, we get a good number of
those questions. I think for some of them, there
just are no answers. Ha, ha, ha. Well, you have to
give up a classroom some credit for your
sophistication.
Did you have any amount of entertainment or
recreation? We talked a little bit ago about a few
things in the Y and club meetings and so forth.
While we had the recorder off a minute ago, you
mentioned a lecturer who was there who had an
influence upon you. Did you have much of that
experience? about once a year or something like
that. I only remember that. Of course, every
chapel day, that's Christmas, Sunday, we had a
speaker from a different denomination, and some
of those people were, we had to go to the chapel to
get the whole core in that little building, if you
remember what it looks like. That was the old
chapel building? Yeah, the old chapel building.
Now, Diane Hall was built while you were there, and
that became the new chapel then. Yeah, the new
chapel. And while I was in the, signaled in the last
phases of that service company, I was stationed in
that chapel. We occupied that chapel. I believe
they then dubbed it the Armory, didn't they? Yeah.
Did you ever have any movies on campus? Yes, that
came after the war, I'm pretty sure. Yes, it came
after the war. They had an arbor out there back of
the in that open space back at the YMCA. We had a
whole couple thousand, I imagine. They'd have
pictures in there. There were second and
third-run pictures, and we had a few. Some
students put on plays. There were several of
those. Class put them on to raise some money and
things of that kind. What sort of things? What did
they raise money for?
I think it was to buy something. I've forgotten
what that was called. Just be a class gift to the
school or something? Yeah, something of that
kind. And I can visualize the people that were on
that, and they're all dead. They were on what? On
that program. The only program, the only thing
they had. They're all passed out. And they were
younger people, too.
That was a time when... The thing that dominated
that period was forming of the American Veterans
Association, and
the commandant was married Bazell's sister. What
was his name? Somewhere along there, Ike Ashburn.
Ike Ashburn. I'd known him for years before he had
gone to Polytechnic College in Fort Worth as a
barefoot boy when I lived on Bessie Street, which
was the first street leading to Polytechnic
College. I'd known him ever since he'd gone at that
period of time in Polytechnic College, and he was a
journalist or what we call a reporter to the
public, what do you call that, communications He
was in charge of that. On the campus? Yes. Or
college information office or something like
that. And that was his job. He was a big fella. Six
feet six and weighed 300 pounds and the jolliest,
kindest person you ever knew. And he and many of the
faculty went out and took lessons from the Cadet
Corps on drilling. And he went off into this
training camp over there, and he came back to
college as a full major and made commandant at
college. And that was 1919 through 19—I don't know
when, how long he stayed there. But he was the
person who seemed to bring the whole spirit of the
whole thing together, absolutely. All these men
that came back, most of them were dissatisfied.
Everybody was unhappy. I could imagine that, and I
think this happened again after the Second World
War, men who had interrupted their schooling to go
off to the war and then come back, and they were
not... They were at odds and ends. They didn't know
what it was all about, and they were very unhappy. I
was, too. And to put your finger on it is difficult.
But some were resentful for the treatment they'd
gotten, the honor or the neglect. Some were
concerned greatly over the loss of people that
they didn't have. And all of us recognized that
this was a changed environment. It wasn't the same
old easygoing. atmosphere that we had enjoyed
before, and it never was again, I don't think. And I
think once you interrupt a pattern of living, you
can't ever re-establish it again. Was there a
difference, say, in the military discipline
before and after the war? There was less
discipline after than before. There was more give
and take.
If you, before the war, if you failed to salute, you
got reprimanded very highly. And after that, it
was all kind of slipshod. It wasn't this great. Was
there a requirement for each cadet to speak to each
other cadet as he met him on campus then? No, they
didn't. Sometimes you did, sometimes you didn't.
But I got a taste of that in 1937. I was down there for
I came down from the University of Pennsylvania to
visit my folks in Fort Worth. And I took that trip
down to see Dean Kyle. And I couldn't get anything
done. These students come up, introduce
themselves, and then we tell them who you are. And
the first thing you know, they've taken you over.
And you don't get anything done. And it was
pleasant. But, by George, I'd be scared to go down.
And now it's the same thing happening. The same
thing doesn't happen anymore. Quite often you
walk all the way across campus and no one will speak
to you unless you speak to them first. Well, Lord
gracious, you couldn't go ten feet then in those
days. Did the cadet officers have any particular
privileges over the regular cadets?
I think they did, but I can't
pinpoint it. I know that they had more freedom to do
things than we did. Did
you have any favorite teachers or instructors
when you were there?
Well, to tell you the truth, I think they were all my
favorites.
Even the severest one, the man we had in chemistry
that plunked, I think, 80% of his students for his
entire career. People disliked him, but I was
assistant to a man who was in charge of keeping the
chemistry building in order. And I worked for 20
cents an hour, odd hours. And I loved that man. He
was a little fellow, and he was very didactic. He
had everything exactly. Chemistry was so
precise, the way he presented it, the average
person couldn't conceive of it, you see. And
because the president gave us a lecture before his
class started saying that it took a superior mind
to, if you were proficient in chemistry, you had a
superior mind. And because I wasn't, I had an
inferiority complex, although I worked in the
building. But the other chemistry teachers I
thought were just, well, we were just like
buddies. And Dr. Hedges, C.C. Hedges, I wonder if
he's still living. I'm not sure. I would like to
know. I have thought for years I would go down to see
him. He was chemical engineer. He was in charge of
the whole chemistry division. And Duke Thornton.
Duke Thornton is still living. I want to see him
someday. He was just a young man in the chemistry
department the last two years I was there. The
others I can remember, but I can't remember the
names. And the catalog that would have refreshed
my memory I have searched all over the place for,
and I have suspicion that I gave them with a ton of
other stuff to the Southwest collection here.
Okay. What was the general attitude of the
students toward the administration? And I guess
this would be a dual kind of thing, one to President
Bezell for the education administration and one
to the commandant, to the bull for the military.
Isn't that
the same?
I don't know that there was any conflict. I can't
put my finger on it. I know I got a dream I wanted to
take some plants that I had developed over in the
horticulture, take them home and transplant them
on this farm, and I couldn't get any. The
commandant turned me down,
and I went to Wiesel's office to ask him about it,
and he scolded me plenty. But the upshot of it was,
the commandant said, all right, go ahead. Get back
in three days. And I did. But that's the only
conflict I ever had with them. And Dr. Buzell, in
later years, after that year, that was my freshman
year, he was always very, very careful, very
thoughtful. And I stayed there one summer. and got
to know him and his family. So I always felt very
fond of Dr. Brazell, Dr. Hedges, Dr.
Francis, and his left and right arm was
Marsteller. I had War Courses under Marsteller,
and he used to raise cane with me, and I thought he
was great.
He was a rough speaking person, but he was a very
gentle, fine person. His father-in-law was Deke
Fountain, who was head of English, and Dean
Fountain and I were buddies. I liked every one of my
teachers, and I often wondered where they've
what's happened. I know that Hensel and Potts in
the horticulture are both gone, and I
just wonder about hedges. I'd just like to see
hedges. I'm not sure whether he's still there.
Duke Thornton, I know is, because my assistant
interviewed him this summer on his career there as
a teacher, and he gave us some rather interesting
insights into life in Bachelor Hall, for example,
and things of that nature. Entomology,
he married Miss Merriman back in, that's after I
left college. He was, in anthropology, was
Bilzing. Bilzing was a wonderful person.
I had an English teacher my senior year on public
speaking, and I thought he was great. Looking back
on people like Puryear, who was assistant to the
president when I went there, you know, he was a
mathematician.
Oh, who was that in engineering and history? I knew
those people, but I was not necessarily a student
of theirs. But
those people treated you as if you were their own
kid. That's the kind of attitude we had there.
There's a pretty close working and social
relationship between the students and the
faculty. I always found it so. Were there any girls
in any of the classes that you attended? No,
whatsoever. The only girls on the campus that year
was three or four who worked in the home
demonstration department who were housed in that
building across the street from Speza Hall, what
we call that building. It was one of the first
buildings on the campus, a four-story building.
French-type building. What was the name of that? I
can't remember. Gathright. It was Gathright.
Gathright. They were housed in that, and they came
out from town on the interurban. One girl, Ruth
Cannon, was secretary to the registrar, who
was—the
registrar was—I can't call his name offhand. I
can't remember it either. preceded H.L. Heaton,
who... Yeah, well, just a minute, I'll get to it.
But Ruth Cannon, during the war, in 1918, married
Runt Stangle.
And I always remember that we almost had a
celebration in our company because we thought
that was the greatest thing that ever happened.
Ruth Runt Stangle and Ruth Cannon got married.
That was the most beautiful couple.
And of course, Ron Stangle is the reason why I'm
here. Because out of curiosity, I came to visit
Tech in 1937 to see him because I heard he was here.